Hi guys today on Divas Can Cook we are making
some good old spicy, crunchy fried chicken!
I have been getting so many requests for a
good spicy fried chicken recipe.
I thought y'all said y'all wanted some healthy
recipes?!
Mmm hmm (laugh)
Well you know I'm ya girl!
I gotcha!!
So let's get right on into it!
Alright so the first step we're gonna brine
this chicken.
You already know I love me a buttermilk brine
it's so good.
Place that buttermilk into a large bowl.
I line my bowl with a brining bag.
Ok now we're going to add in some good ol
hot sauce.
I'm using Franks because it's so doggone good
but you can use any kind that you want to
ok.
And then we're gonna add in some onions, we're
going to throw in a little bit of garlic,
and you can also throw in some salt if you
want too, you know...add a little flavor for
to it.
But yeah go ahead and mix that up ok get it
well combined.
Then we're going to take our little chicken
here, just one whole, cut up chicken fully
thawed out.
We don't want to use the frozen kind.
And just place it right into this brine just
like this right here.
Perfect!
Go ahead and push it down like that, dunk
it in there.
Then we're gonna take this bag and wrap it
up.
We want this chicken to be completely submerged
in this brine alright!
Perfect!
We're gonna brine it for 3 hours or so and
then when it's done, pour off that brine and
then shake off the excess brine from the chicken.
I didn't even rinse them off I just went ahead
and shook them really, really good and got
as much buttermilk off as possible.
Now it's time to move on to our spices!
I have a ton of different, yummy spices in here.
Just gonna mix this all up until it is well
combined ok and then I'm gonna season up my
chicken generously with this spice mixture
front and back .
Don't use all of it.
Maybe like half of it okay.
Front and back make sure you season it really
really good.
And really you can use any kind of spices
you want to use.
You can just go with the plain cajun spice
blend if you want to.
It really doesn't matter just make sure you
get it well seasoned like that.
Yum!
Looks perfect!
Alright now I have some self-rising all-purpose
flour here.
Perfect for frying chicken!
I'm going to add the remaining spices into
the flour.
Stir it up.
Ooooh do not breath in this flour.
Oh my gosh you guys, I accidentally had a
flour cloud come up and it went in my nose
and I was going crazy child!
It was burning so bad!
Stir it up just like this!
You wanna taste the flour and make sure that
flour is well seasoned.
If not add in more salt, pepper, whatevs just
make sure it tastes nice and salty and spicy
ok?
Perfect!
Now we have our brown paper bag here because
we're old school!
We're gonna dump our flour mixture into the
bag and throw our chicken in there just like
this right here.
Yes that's what you do!
Then roll that bag up and then we can pretend
like our name is Ceilia Foote and we're gonna
shake this chicken up and we're gonna say
"This is so much fun!".
I love that movie, The Help!
Oh my gosh you guys when they are making chicken
that is my favorite scene in that  whole movie.
Love that movie so much!
And here's some little cleavage action for
you guys.
Heyyyy!
Go Monique girl!!!
Alright so now we're gonna open up the bag
and our chicken should be very  well-coated.
Perfect!
I love this method because it does it all
in one little step.
Love it!
Shake off that excess flour.
We don't need it!
We don't need extra flour on our chicken,
we don't need that!
Shake it  off and place it on a baking pan.
And now it looks like this right here!
It's perfect but we are not done.
We want a nice, thick, crunchy coating sooooo... we're
gonna mix up some eggs here.
Go ahead and whisk them with your fork really
good until they are uniform in color.
We don't want streaks or anything.
Nice yellow eggs.
We're gonna throw in some water.
And then we're gonna throw in some hot sauce!
We want is spicy, spicy!
If you can't handle spicy chicken then this
is not for you honey because this chicken
got a lil heat on it!
Next we're gonna throw in a little bit of
garlic powder.
We're gonna mix this on up like this right
here.
Alright now that is ready to go.
We're gonna take our chicken, dip it into
this little hot sauce-egg mixture, turn it
around, shake off the excess and place it
right back into the bag with the flour.
Go ahead and repeat this with all of the chicken
and then you know the drill honey go ahead
and wrap that bag right on up and shake, shake
shake!
We are almost done with this part.
Yay!!
Even though I like doing this I was ready
to be done with it.
Ok we're gonna check it out.
Our chicken should be very well coated.
Perfect!
We're gonna shake it off.
Place it on our baking sheet.
And now this chicken is ready for some oil.
Go ahead and pour some oil into a deep skillet.
I'm using vegetable oil but you could use
some shortening, you could use some peanut
oil, whatever lifts ya skirt  go ahead and do it!
When that oil is nice and hot go ahead and
place your chicken in, just like this right
here.
Now you don't want this oil to be splattering
and pop locking and dropping.
If the oil is popping and smoking, it's too
hot, turn it down sister!
Ok we don't want it to be too hot now!
It just sound like nice soothing rain.
Like this right here [sound of chicken frying
gently]
Gorgeous!
Alright when the chicken is ready go ahead
and take it out of the oil and place it on
a plate lined with paper towels.
And then go ahead and fry up the net batch.
Oh my gosh, keep an eye on it because I almost
burned this doggone chicken and you know honey,
"Minnie don't burn no chicken!"
And then while it's really hot, don't let
it cool off yet, sprinkle with some cajun
seasonings.
Any kind of cajun seasoning.
This is optional.
You don't have to do it, it's already hot
enough but you know, if you really like it
hot go ahead and put on some cajun seasoning
and you're pretty much done!
Yayyy!!
You did it!
And even though it had a lot of steps to it,
it was pretty easy.
Pretty easy and straight forward.
I use to be so scared to fry chicken you guys!
Oh my gosh, but you know, easy recipe.
Go ahead and get you some hot sauce.
I love this kind right here, yum!
And go ahead and douse it with some yummy
hot sauce!
Now this is definitely some hot n spicy fried
chicken.
Ok let me go ahead and take a bite out of
this chicken for you guys so you can see just
how juicy it is.
Look at that!
Juicy, crunchy, spicy.
Perfect!
What more could you ask for!
And as always you can find this recipe on
my blog at divascancook.com.
And while you're already in the kitchen you
guys you might as well make a full on chicken
dinner!
Who needs KFC honey make it yourself!
Click on those photos to go right to the video
recipes!
Thank you guys so much for watching!
Lata!!